SECOND REGULAR SESSION
SENATE BILL NO. 1012
103RD GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY SENATOR NICOLA.
5687S.01I
KRISTINA MARTIN, Secretary
AN ACT
To amend chapters 130 and 573, RSMo, by adding thereto two new sections relating to the use of
artificially generated content, with penalty provisions.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, as follows:
Section A.
Chapters 130 and 573, RSMo, are amended by
adding thereto two new sections, to be known as sections 130.165
and 573.120, to read as follows:
130.165.
1. For purposes of this section, the
following terms mean:
(1)
"Generative artificial intelligence" or
"generative AI", a machine-based system that can, for a
given set of human-defined objectives, emulate the structure
and characteristics of input data in order to generate
derived synthetic content including images, videos, audio,
text, and other multi-media digital content;
(2)
"Metadata", structural or descriptive information
about data such as content, format, source, rights,
accuracy, provenance, periodicity, granularity, publisher or
responsible party, contact information, method of
collection, and other relevant descriptions of the data.
2.
(1) A political advertisement, electioneering
communication, or other miscellaneous advertisement of a
political nature shall, in addition to any other disclaimer
required by this chapter, contain the disclaimer described
SB 1012
in subdivision (2) of this subsection if it contains images,
video, audio, graphics, or other digital content created, in
whole or in part, with the use of generative artificial
intelligence and:
(a)
Appears to depict a real person performing an
action that did not actually occur;
(b)
Manipulates the voice or actions of a candidate to
show the candidate, audibly or visually, doing or saying
something that the candidate did not do or say; or
(c)
Was created with intent to injure a candidate or
to deceive voters regarding an election or ballot issue.
(2)
The disclaimer required by subdivision (1) of this
subsection shall be in substantially the following form:
Created in whole or in part with the use of
generative artificial intelligence (AI).
(image/audio/video/multimedia) has been edited
and depicts speech or conduct that falsely
appears to be authentic or truthful.
(3)
This
The disclaimer required by subdivision (1) of this
subsection shall meet the following specifications:
(a)
For a printed communication, the disclaimer shall
be stated in bold font with a font size of at least twelve
points;
(b)
For a television or video communication, the
disclaimer shall be clearly readable throughout the
communication and occupy at least four percent of the
vertical picture height;
(c)
For an internet public communication that includes
text or graphic components, the disclaimer shall be viewable
without the user taking any action and be large enough to be
clearly readable;
SB 1012
(d)
For any audio component of a communication, the
disclaimer shall be at least three seconds in length and
spoken in a clearly audible and intelligible manner at
either the beginning or the end of the audio component of
the communication;
(e)
For a graphic communication, the disclaimer shall
be large enough to be clearly readable but no less than four
percent of the vertical height of the communication.
3.
The metadata of the communication shall include the
disclosure statement, the identity of the tool used to
create the communication, and the date and time the
communication was created.
4.
The disclosure statement, including the disclosure
statement in any metadata, shall, to the extent technically
feasible, be permanent or unable to be easily removed by a
subsequent user.
5.
In addition to any civil penalties provided by this
chapter, a person identified pursuant to a disclaimer
required by law as paying for, sponsoring, or approving a
political advertisement, an electioneering communication, or
other miscellaneous advertisement of a political nature that
is required to contain the disclaimer prescribed in this
section and who fails to include the required disclaimer is
guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
573.120.
1. For purposes of this section, the
following terms mean:
(1)
"Deepfake", an artificially generated or
manipulated media created using deep learning models to
produce highly realistic but synthetic representations of
people, objects, or events;
(2)
"Intimate deepfake", a deepfake that depicts:
SB 1012
(a)
The uncovered genitals, pubic area, anus, or
postpubescent female nipple of the individual;
(b)
The display or transfer of bodily sexual fluids:
a.
Onto any part of the body of the individual; or
b.
From the body of the individual; or
(c)
The individual engaging in sexually explicit
conduct;
(3)
"Sexually explicit conduct", actual or simulated:
(a)
Sexual intercourse, including genital-genital,
oral-genital, anal-genital, or oral-anal, whether between
persons of the same or opposite sex;
(b)
Bestiality;
(c)
Masturbation;
(d)
Sadistic or masochistic abuse; or
(e)
Lascivious exhibition of the genitals or pubic
area of any individual.
2.
A person commits the offense of producing a
deepfake if the person discloses, or threatens to disclose:
(1)
A deepfake of a depicted individual; or
(2)
An intimate deepfake of a depicted individual.
3.
(1) A violation of subdivision (1) of subsection 2
of this section is a class E felony.
(2)
A violation of subdivision (2) of subsection 2 of
this section is a class B felony.
